---
layout: post
title: Anatype
date: 2025-12-03 11:47 -0800
---

I want to write more so I decided to make an app to improve my writing instead.  This helped push off actually having to write anything until my app was finished.  Unfortunately for me, the app is done and now I can no longer make excuses.

My issue with writing is distractions.  The internet is a big distraction.  Other windows on the computer are distracting. Formatting options and style are distractions.  I created a writing app to solve all of those problems.

Introducing [Anatype: distraction free writing for macOS](https://anatype.com).  Anatype is a free full-screen writing experience that blocks the internet completely while open.  There are no formatting options beyond choosing your font. All you can do is write.

I read an article or interview with George R.R. Martin at some point that revealed he writes on a 90s word processor that is disconnected from the internet.  I loved that idea.  I wanted a writing app that blocked the internet seamlessly when it was open.  This was accomplished with macOS system extensions that need to be enabled on install.  Note: local network traffic and dictation services are not blocked.

I also wanted a writing app that was designed for the full-screen.  When I went to go look into basic options most of the apps that originally did this were defunct, costly or not minimal enough in my opinion.

The final feature I added just before release was sound.  I wanted to evoke the analog feeling of feedback so I added typewriter sounds on keypress.  The sounds are tuned to the speed of the typing and control keys to give a natural presence as you write.  Sounds are on by default but can be disabled in Application > Settings menu.

[Anatype](https://anatype.com) is a fully-featured macOS document based application with support for multiple windows, multiple tabs, dictation and document versioning in conjunction with time machine.  It's also FREE so [grab it today and get something done for a change](https://anatype.com)!