---
title:  "Testing"
date:   2013-10-21 14:28:03
photo: 	/assets/dummy.jpg
---

I need to learn why I'm wrong about what I'm building.

I have been working on a new app project called Cloudgram over the past 7 weeks.  The idea is simple: an easier way to share photos and videos privately with family and friends.

Building software on your own is hard.  You make all of the decisions both good and bad.  All of my decisions are assumptions until they are validated by real users.

I sat down with Amy last week to walk her through how the app worked.  Within a minute I realized that I was wrong.  The data model and user experience needed to be redone.

I had assumed that photo sharing would be a two way street.  Users would form trusted groups and share.  Once within a group users could create albums as a means of classifying a sets of photos.

This assumption requires two concepts to be explained: groups and albums.  Amy was focused on how to share an album and control who could see it.  She also didn't like the implication that being part of a group meant having to see other people's albums in order to share her own with them.  In her mind, the album was the first class object; not the group.

I spent the last week refactoring the app to be built around the single concept of a shareable album.  Groups no longer exist.  Everything got simpler: the data model, the UI and the pitch.

Deciding *what* to build is always harder than actually building it.

[Help me test Cloudgram for both iOS and later Android by signing up to my TestFlight account.](http://tflig.ht/15GTAM5) 

Beta testing will begin later this week.

I need all the help I can get.

*[Join my mailing list to get updates about Cloudgram and other projects coming soon](http://eepurl.com/FyeXX)*